---
title: "Week 3: Open source and home server"
date: "2021-01-26 14:41:52"
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "2021-01-26---Week-3"
category: "diary"
tags:
  - "#Diary"
  - "#January"
  - "#2021"
description: "The difficulty in keeping up with this blog is real. There are many projects I wanted to start and it's been buzzing on my mind for over several days. Will likely take it step by step."
socialImage: "/media/42-line-bible.jpg"
---



### 2021-01-26 14:42:41

The difficulty in keeping up with this blog is real. There are many projects I wanted to start and it's been buzzing on my mind for over several days. Will likely take it step by step. They are as follows.
* Obsidian notetaking: Looking at improved notetaking methodology. This one uses markdown much like this blog
* Opensense: Looking to repurpose some old hardware lying around and build a home lab
* Ansible: Automate the deployment of my workstation
* Schoolism: practicing art needs to be very much daily.
* Running: I was lucky enough to get into 6-foot this year however, I am way behind in my training.


### 2021-01-30 14:42:41

Had a lot of fun experimenting with Pfsense, mailcow and proxmox over the weekend. Going to make the jump to using all opensource productivity software. Granted I will be expecting a bit of overhead in maintenance. 

Decided to go with a virtualized pfsense in order to keep the hardware footprint small. It is working well at the moment. Also overwhelmed with all the options, plugins and features available. Initially experimented on a Watchguard XTM510 and a HUSN J1900 router but decided against it as the Watchguard had a Celeron 440 with 35w tdp and 1GB ram while the HUSN J1900 had a quadcore Celeron at 10w tdp. The J1900 is not a bad unit as I salvaged 2 pci wireless card from an XTM 33-w and T50 however I later realised these cards are not supported on BSD. 

Mailcow was fairly easy to setup using the docker file from Github. The creators did a fantastic job. Will Likely spend a few more days testing the backup and restore and also test how quickly I can resurrect the mail server should the server die.

The goal is trying to remain under $70-80 as that is cost of a Microsoft 365 Business Basic subscription that comes with Online office suite, 1TB OneDrive and ofcourse exchange online. 


I must admit, this has sparked the joy of tinkering again. 

In other news, my running fitness has drastically decreased over the new year's break. Felt lethargic every time I go out for a run. Could be the humidity. About 40km in the bank so far this week and a planned long 30km tomorrow. This is going to hurt. 

### 2021-01-31 20:21:23

30km along the Six Foot track this morning. Felt sluggish to start however things fell into place midway through. Its always motivating playing catch up when you arrive late. The cooler weather in the Blue Mountains today worked in my favor.

The open source home server idea is quite overwhelming. Lots of things to consider but for now, I will focus on the mail server.

The goal of every application or instance deployed is immutability.

#### Mailcow requirements

* Ubuntu Server 20.04 Virtual Machine
* Mailcow dockerized
* Backups

#### Backup and Restore
* Restore to the current container
* Restore to a new Mailcow instance

#### Migration Plan
* Mailsync
Will need to migrate my existing mail from outlook.com and 0365

On an unrelated note, I've switched from opensense to pfsense. pfsense appear to work better out of the box. There is a bit of a delay with using DNS resolve and if it becomes unbearable, I will likely switch to DNS forwarding.